# Self Assessment

## Part A - Individual Contribution
During the development of our Senior Design project, MedAssist, I was responsible for both the frontend and backend development, as well as for integrating the two systems. The backend was a shared effort, due to multiple interconnected features which were required for MedAssist to function properly. The frontend needed to communicate to the database for account authentication and data storage, while also supporting the OpenAI connection for chat generation and RAG pipeline. I initially planned to rely heavily on my prior web development experience from high school, but I quickly realized that this project demanded a more in-depth knowledge and understanding of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. In order to build the skills required, I used free courses on LinkedIn Learning and Coursera, alongside guides and tutorials featured on W3Schools. I also expanded my knowledge of encryption processes and security standards throughout this semester, which directly influenced how user data was stored and how the database schema was designed.
  
For the frontend, I wanted MedAssist to not only look clean and be user-friendly but also provide meaningful value to users. To support this, I created a journaling feature with a connected calendar that allows users to record daily entries and track their overall mood. This gives users a month-to-month overview of their emotional patterns, encouraging reflection and continued personal growth. Because MedAssist allows users to vent and access DSM-5 based information using artificial intelligence, I also needed to consider how to support users who required professional assistance. To address this, I compiled a list of external resources, including national crisis hotlines, counseling services, and group therapy options. Overall, I feel that I successfully implemented the features that I set out to build. One challenge I ran into during development was creating an internal mailbox system. After several attempts, I ultimately decided on scraping the feature in favor of using standard email for user feedback submission and communication. Building a complete mail system from scratch turned out to be too time-consuming and offered too few benefits to warrant inclusion given our project’s goals.

## Part B - Team Assessment
As a group, we accomplished most of what we planned for MedAssist. There is still room for improvement though, especially if the application were to be released to the public as a true product. Ultimately, we developed two versions of the application: one that runs entirely locally and one that can be hosted on the web. Despite our prior experience with group work, both academically and professionally, this project reinforced the importance of clear, consistent, and concise communication. Over the past six months we coordinated through email and Discord for planning, assignment completion, and development coordination & updates. With our busy schedules and flexible timeline, it became easy for deadlines to slip back in favor of other pressing coursework. Another challenge that affected development was the small size of our team given the scope of the project, which was only two members. If I could change anything, I would add an additional team member or two with strengths in graphic design, database management, or API development. More hands-on-deck would have allowed for better collaboration, eased the pressure of managing so many components, and helped cover some of my technical weaknesses.
  
My efforts were primarily focused on expanding the mental health platform aspects of MedAssist, while my teammate concentrated on the chatbot component. In the end, I created a hostable web application with a frontend built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with a backend connected to a PostgreSQL database for information storage and retrieval. My teammate developed an API integration with OpenAI to send and receive messages, enhanced with Retrieval-Augmented-Generation to incorporate DSM-5 context. He also used Docker, LlamaIndex, and Streamlit, to build a local application that includes all major project features using a simple, user-friendly interface. In conclusion, I believe we created a strong prototype that demonstrates the potential for what MedAssist could offer. However, additional development time would be necessary to turn it into a fully-fledged, secure, and production-ready product.
